I matriculated at the University of Michigan in the fall of 2007.  At the time, however, I lacked motivation.  I attended college because I did not know what else to do.  I attended college because my parents expected it of me, and because that was what my peers were doing.  This was a mistake. I was immature and unprepared for college life.

In my first semester, I had to adjust to living away from home.  I experienced social anxiety all throughout middle and high school and now, it was difficult to make any friends.  Compounding the issue, my dad had recently filed for bankruptcy and was unemployed.  Therefore, I had to work twenty-five hours a week.  I kept my personal, financial and academic struggles from my parents because I did not want them to worry.    However, I was not ready to handle everything on my own.  I began to experience depression, which affected my grades so much that it led to my being placed on academic probation following my third semester.

After taking a semester off, I returned to school in the fall of 2009.  This time, I met regularly with an academic counselor.  I had thought that this would be my semester to turn things around.  But I was still struggling with my social anxiety.  It was difficult to ask a question if I did not understand a concept.  I shied away from class discussions, and holding a casual conversation became difficult.  Five hundred miles separated me from my family, and my social anxiety isolated me from everyone else.  Seeing that my situation remained unchanged, my counselor suggested I withdraw from school that semester.

After one more semester at the University of Michigan, I was dismissed.  I realized I had to face the obstacles that were in my way.  I had to fight my social anxiety and relearn how to connect with people.  I had to overcome the depression that had been weighing me down for the past few years.  I could not ask anyone to help me with this.  This was something I had to face on my own, even though I knew I had the support of my family and friends from home.

Being dismissed from the University of Michigan forced me out of my comfort zone; it was an experience that led me to grow.  I came home discouraged and ashamed.  But this experience taught me to face my issues and address them directly.  I learned that out of every negative, something positive could be gained.

I eventually decided to enroll at Nassau Community College with the hope that if I applied myself to my studies, I could regain my footing academically and earn back what I had lost.  I have spent the past three semesters attending community college full-time while working twenty-five hours a week.  I have learned how to work hard and efficiently.  I have improved my time management skills.  Making friends has become easier and my social skills are returning to me.  I have learned a great deal about myself and am more cognizant of my strengths and limitations.  I have become more self-aware and put more thought behind my words and actions.  My mentality is completely changed; I am a new person.  All I need now is for an academic institution to give me a chance.  I needed a fresh start, and I finally got it.  I was notified three weeks ago that I had been accepted to Emory University for the fall 2012 semester.  I am grateful for the opportunity to redeem myself and realize my potential.  I am confident in my ability to succeed no matter which school I attend.  I sincerely believe that I am ready for any obstacle that comes my way.  I see hardship and difficulties as opportunities to grow and discover myself more fully.  I embrace challenge in all aspects of my life, because I am confident that I will emerge from them as a better and stronger person.

I visited Columbia University for the first time in high school.  I was immediately drawn to the campus.  I thought that the geographical setting of the school was ideal because the diversity and unpredictability of Manhattan are what makes living there an education in and of itself.  But standing on the steps of the library, and looking out on South Lawn, I couldn’t help but think that I was indeed in a campus-setting, a rare thing in the city that never sleeps.

I want to attend Columbia University because it offers students who have taken an unconventional path through academia the opportunity to pursue a traditional education.  I would truly relish having the opportunity to meet other students from similar backgrounds.  I would be taking classes with some of the brightest people in the world.  And being one of the top academic institutions in the world, Columbia attracts an extraordinary pool of educators, innovators and leaders in their respective fields.  While I have speculated at times what my life would be like had I taken a more traditional route following high school, I am grateful that I am in a position to be considered for Columbia University.

During the time I took off from school, I worked as a full-time graphic designer with MedNet Technologies.  MedNet is a leader in web development services for healthcare professionals, and they host and manage over 2,500 websites.  I found myself working with clients from all over the country and in various healthcare subfields, from private healthcare practices and large university hospitals to physician networks and insurance companies.  I first started working with MedNet in my junior year of high school as a part-time flash designer.  Although I was the youngest designer at the company, I gradually began working with the creative director and design manager on a more one-to-one basis as they recognized my skill and professionalism.  Having learned how to design websites on my own as a hobby, I would have never thought that I would one day work in a professional web design environment.  What started out as a desire to create and manage my own website has evolved into a viable career choice.

The past three semesters at Nassau Community College gave me time to reflect on the path I took to get here.  But more importantly, they gave me time to look ahead.  I have established a number of goals in my life.  I know that I want to study business and that I will be majoring in economics.  Once I earn my bachelor’s degree, I want to eventually attend business school to earn my M.B.A.  I am currently bilingual in English and Korean but would like to learn Spanish and perhaps a fourth language in order to expand my professional opportunities.  I have grown more confident, and I feel ready to tackle the next challenge in my life.  While I cannot predict what the future holds, I am certain that my challenging life experiences have developed the necessary character to approach life’s problems successfully.

Ever since the economy began its downward trend in the early 2000s, my family has struggled for financial stability.  And as it is with most prospective undergraduates, financial aid was a significant variable in my decision process.  My parents were unable to assist me financially and so I took it upon myself to work my way through school.  I took a part-time job on-campus, working about twenty hours a week while being enrolled full-time.  One of my regular shifts was on Friday night and it would take me home at about 4 in the morning.

I’ve been attending community college for the past year and a half and have been continuing to pay my way through school.  I currently work 25 hours a week between my job at a web design company and freelance website projects that I take on.  While it hasn’t been easy, it’s taught me the value of money and effective time management.

I first started working in my junior year of high school when I was hired as a flash designer.  It had been only a year since I’d begun schooling myself on flash animation and scouring the internet for resources that could help.  I was immature, unwise, and impulsive, your typical fifteen-year-old.  I’m naturally a shy and unassertive person and it was difficult for me to adjust to working in a professional environment where everyone was so much older and more experienced.  But the collective experience of working taught me the value of organization, the importance of time management, and gave me the confidence that I could overcome adversity, a trait which had been instilled in me from an early age.

My family has moved a few times in my lifetime but the most memorable move for me was the one that happened the summer preceding fourth grade.  We were living in a two-family co-op where my earliest recollections of childhood begin.  Houses were close together and our backyards were connected, something which promoted a feeling of community.  I had a group of four close friends that I would see and play with everyday, their names still etched in my memory, but I was friendly with most of the kids in my neighborhood.  I didn’t know what it was like to not have any friends until we moved in the summer of 1998, to a town that consisted primarily of people of Irish and Italian descent.  I was ridiculed daily for being “Chinese” (I’m Korean) and I was afraid of venturing outside of my home.  Discrimination reared its ugly face when people placed their fingers on their temples and pulled the skin back.  Anxiety and fear began to take root as complete strangers would jeer at me, making sounds that presumably resembled the Chinese language.  It took me a full two years to make friends and then I graduated to middle school where, to my dismay, all the racial slurs and discriminatory comments started all over again.  My middle school was unique in that it was combined with the high school, so that when I was in the seventh grade, all of twelve-years-old, there were seventeen- and eighteen-year-olds towering over me physically and mentally, bullying me because of the way I looked.

I embrace these adversities because of the refining effect they have had on my character.  It’s my hope that one day I will have the opportunity to mentor that shy, unassertive fifteen-year-old kid that I once was and share the lessons that I’ve learned.  Because for all of the trials I’ve experienced, I’ve developed that much more confidence in myself and have discovered a resiliency that I did not know before.

We had arrived at our stop; a bustling subway station in the heart of Seoul, South Korea.  I was ten years old at the time.  It was the summer and we were visiting relatives and meeting old friends of my mom.  As we exited the station, I saw a bundled up old lady standing in the middle of the stairs.  She was holding something out to the people as they passed by.  No one paid her any attention except for me.

As I got closer, I saw what she held in her hand; a few packs of gum.  She was trying to sell the gum.  And then I realized she had neither food to eat nor a home to go to.  She had no family to take care of her, no children to provide for her.  She was alone, too old to work, too desperate to maintain her dignity.   Inching closer to an inevitable end, she desperately clung on to life.

As I thought about all of these things, I was filled with compassion for her and I felt a desire to help her.  It felt unnatural to be concerned for a complete stranger.  I was a child.  I was too young to make a difference.  I didn’t have money to give her or a roof to put over her head.  But I still felt guilty that I could not do more for her.

That was the last time I visited South Korea.  My memories of that summer have since faded except for this particular one, because it was a moment that I experienced directly.  At times it has even served as a catalyst for thought.  On occasion I have wondered why there is such a great disparity between the rich and the poor.  When I was younger, I used to wish I was Robin Hood so I could even out the scales a bit.  While it’s not right to take from someone, there is no need; it is within my rights to give to others.

My desire to help people has and continues to shape my life.  I volunteer my time with a local hospital and a few different non-profit organizations.  I take an active leadership role in my church and aspire to be a role model for others.  I try to live my life as a Christian with values gleaned from the bible.  Ultimately, I just try to be human in my interaction with other people.  I put the focus on others, asking them about their day instead of indulging in the recollection of my own.  I eschew praise whenever possible, and I accept responsibility when the blame is mine.  I try to live life the way I feel it should be lived, and I hold a set of values that I try to live by.  These values are not also known as the Ten Commandments, nor were they taken from a self-help book.  I have developed my core values over the past twenty two years.  As much as I enjoyed the good times during that span, it was the bad times that shaped me the most.  It was during my most trying experiences that I learned the most about myself.  It was through the fire that my identity was forged.

It has been said that in order to live a fulfilling life, one must do what one loves.  While this is commonly said in reference to choosing a career, I feel that my preferred areas of study reflect my desires accurately and will ultimately result in a satisfying journey through life.

I want to study psychology and economics.  I am curious about the development of humans, physically and mentally and how our brains process information and function on a daily basis.  Our society has already made tremendous progress in uncovering the intricacies of human beings.  I want to be at the forefront of these research initiatives, delving into fields that lack clarity and uncovering information about the human species that will change the way we approach life. 

By nature, I am a logical person which is why I want to continue my studies of economics.  Economics has applications throughout society, in related fields such as business or government, but also in more diverse subjects like education, crime, and science.  At its core, economics involves the analysis of data, a task I thoroughly enjoy and feel is one of my strengths.

Psychology and economics are two academic fields which I can easily become immersed in, due to my interest in these subjects and their many applications to our society.  Upon graduating with a bachelor’s degree, I plan on attending medical school.
It was early last year when I decided that I would begin preparing for medical school.  My long-term goal is to be in a position to help people.  Graduating with a degree in medicine would be a big step towards achieving that goal.  There will be sacrifices I will have to make in order to take this path but the end result is motivation enough to keep me focused.
I believe that in order to live a rewarding life, one must do what one loves.  It can be difficult for a college student to identify the career that they will eventually pursue.  At this age, students have yet to fully discover themselves, and it is likely that the self-discovery process will continue throughout life.  However, the past few years have been eye-opening for me in this regard.  I went from being a full-time student at the University of Michigan, to being a full-time web designer at a local firm, to attending school full-time while working twenty hours a week.  During this period, I have worked to overcome the limitations that previously hindered me. I explored my interests and engaged in academic and extracurricular pursuits that expanded my horizons.  During this stretch of self-reflection, I have often thought about my future plans and the path I would take to get there.  I feel that my preferred areas of study are the culmination of this stage of internal discovery in my life, and that pursuing these academic disciplines will prepare me for a fulfilling life. 

I want to study the areas of psychology and economics.  I am curious about the physical and mental development of humans, and I want to understand how our brains process information and function on a daily basis.  Our society has made tremendous strides in uncovering the intricacies of human beings.  I want to be at the forefront of these research initiatives, delving into fields that lack clarity and uncovering information about the human species that will change the way we approach life. 

By nature I am a logical person who thinks things through, which is why I want to continue my studies in economics.  Economics has applications throughout society in directly related fields, such as business or government, but also in more diverse areas, like education, crime, and science.  At its core, economics involves the analysis of data, a task I enjoy and excel at.

Psychology and economics are two academic fields which I can easily become immersed in due to my interest in their applications to everyday life.  Upon graduating with a bachelor’s degree, I plan on attending medical school.

It was early last year when I decided that I wanted to attend medical school.  My long-term goal is to be in a position to help people in need; graduating with a degree in medicine would be a significant step towards achieving that goal.

I look out and see a group of eight boys sitting on one side of a narrow road.  The road runs adjacent to a ravine and there are just three cars on it, two belonging to the government.  Each boy is motionless except for the occasional slap at mosquitoes.  Not a word passes between them.   One of the boys is talking with a police officer.  Paramedics are checking each boy for injuries.  As I look down on this scene, I see myself with a line of blood trickling down my forehead.  I realize that it could have been worse, that I might be looking down at this scene not from a window, but from a much higher perch.

A tow truck arrives.  After a few moments of deliberation between the driver and the officer, the truck backs up to the edge of the ravine.  Nearly half an hour later, there is a fourth car on the road.  It is almost unrecognizable with its battered frame.   Fragments of glass are strewn about, sparkling as they catch the sunlight.

One moment our tires were on the road, the next they were skidding across the pavement, struggling to gain traction.  It felt as if time was suspended as we dropped down the ravine.  We were fortunate that the car landed right side up.  There was a clashing symphony of sounds as the car slammed into the ground, its windows shattered into a million pieces and the airbags deployed.  Then there was silence.

After a few seconds I realized I was still alive.  I looked at my friend sitting next to me.  He was speechless, the blood drained from his face.  My friend in the driver’s seat slumped back as he began to sob.  No one said a word.

I live each day knowing it could be my last.  I pursue my passions knowing that life inevitably ends.  Ultimately we have no control over our destination.  But we are in full control of the choices that we make and the journey that results.
